---
published: true
layout: post
title: 简单搜索
tags:
  - 算法训练
description: 简单搜索算法的学习
toc: true
share: true
comments: true
---
# 简单搜索

## POJ 1321

Problem Description:
The pieces are placed on a board of a given shape (which may be irregular), and the pieces are no 
different. Any two pieces cannot be placed in the same row or column of the board when asked to be placed.

Input:
The input contains multiple sets of test data.

The first line of each set of data is two positive integers, n and k, separated by a space, representing the number of pieces that will be described in an n-by-n matrix. N <= 8, k <= n
The end of input is indicated when it is -1 -1.

The subsequent n rows describe the shape of the checkerboard: each row has n characters, with # indicating the checkerboard area and. Denoting the blank area (the data is guaranteed to have no extra blank rows or blank columns).

Output:
For each set of data, a line of output, the output is put number C (data make C<2^31).

Sample Input:
2 1
#.
.#
4 4
...#
..#.
.#..
#...
-1 -1

Sample Output:
2
1

这道题简单来说就是，只能在'#'上放棋子，并且棋子不能在同行同列，求放置棋子的可能方法。

首先我们可以从第一行开始放置棋子，在第一行的一个位置上，如果在该列没有放置过棋子并且该位置为'#'则可以放置棋子，需要放置的棋子数就-1，然后开始第二行棋子的放置，以此类推。

通过上面的操作我们可以得出一种放置棋子的方法，那么要想求出所有的放置方法，这一类题目采用的就是利用堆栈来搜索。

首先我们对棋盘开始搜索，一旦搜索到了可以放置棋子的位置，则将这个状态先压入栈中，直接开始搜索从下一行开始的棋盘，直到需要放置的棋子全都放置完成，这时候开始回溯，我们发现在放置上一个棋子的时候，那一行并没有搜索完全我们就开始下一行的搜索了，回溯的意义就在于穷尽所有可能性，把之前没有搜索过的棋盘继续搜索完全。实现代码如下：

```cpp
#include <cstdio>
#include <cstring>
using namespace std;

const int N=10;
char bd[N][N];//棋盘
bool ok[N];//判断该列是否放置过棋子
int cnt,n,k;//k是棋子个数，cnt是放置棋子的方法数

void dfs(int x)
{
    if(!k) cnt++;
    else
    {
        for(int i=x;i<n;i++)
            for(int j=0;j<n;j++)
                if(ok[j] && bd[i][j]=='#')
                {
                    k--, ok[j]=false;
                    dfs(i+1);
                    k++, ok[j]=true;
                }
    }
}
int main()
{
    while(scanf("%d%d",&n,&k) && n+1)
    {
        for(int i=0;i<n;i++)
            scanf("%s",bd[i]);
        memset(ok,true,sizeof(ok));
        cnt=0;
        dfs(0);
        printf("%d\n",cnt);
    }
}
```

## POJ 2251

Problem Description:
You are trapped in a 3D dungeon and need to find the quickest way out! The dungeon is composed of unit cubes which may or may not be filled with rock. It takes one minute to move one unit north, south, east, west, up or down. You cannot move diagonally and the maze is surrounded by solid rock on all sides.

Is an escape possible? If yes, how long will it take? 

Input:
The input consists of a number of dungeons. Each dungeon description starts with a line containing three integers L, R and C (all limited to 30 in size).

L is the number of levels making up the dungeon.

R and C are the number of rows and columns making up the plan of each level.

Then there will follow L blocks of R lines each containing C characters. Each character describes one cell of the dungeon. A cell full of rock is indicated by a '#' and empty cells are represented by a '.'. Your starting position is indicated by 'S' and the exit by the letter 'E'. There's a single blank line after each level. Input is terminated by three zeroes for L,R and C. 

Output:
Each maze generates one line of output. If it is possible to reach the exit, print a line of the form
   Escaped in x minute(s). 
where x is replaced by the shortest time it takes to escape.
If it is not possible to escape, print the line
   Trapped! 

Sample Input:
3 4 5
S....
.###.
.##..
###.#

#####
#####
##.##
##...

#####
#####
#.###
####E

1 3 3
S##
#E#
###

0 0 0

Sample Output:
Escaped in 11 minute(s).
Trapped!

这是一个三维的迷宫问题，并且要记录步数。